docs/samples/anomaly-detection/anomaly-detection.md, before:

# ![anomaly detection logo](./anomaly-detection-logo.png){ align=left, width="35"} Credit Card Anomaly Detection 

Imagine a stream of credit card authorization attempts, representing, for example, people swiping their chip cards into a reader or typing their number into a website. Such stream may look something like this:

```json
{"card_number": "1212-1221-1121-1234", "card_type": "discover", "card_expiry": "2013-9-12", "name": "Mr. Chester Stracke" },
{"card_number": "1234-2121-1221-1211", "card_type": "dankort", "card_expiry": "2012-11-12", "name": "Preston Abbott" }
...
```

We would like to identify the suspicious transactions, in real time, and extract them for further investigations. 
For example we can count the incoming authorization attempts per card number and identify those authorizations that occurs suspiciously often.

Lets use the `Streams` and `Processors` streaming-runtime resources to build such abnormal authorization detection application:

![Anomaly Detection SR Pipeline](anomaly-detection-sr-pipeline.svg)

The input stream, `card-authorization` , does not provide a time field for the time when the authorization attempt was performed. 
Such field would have been preferred option for the time widowing grouping.
The next best thing is to use the message timestamp assigned by the message broker to each message.
The implementation details section below explain how this is done to provision an additional `event_time` field to the authorization attempts data schema.

The `possible-fraud-detection` processor leverages streaming SQL to compute the possible fraud attempts:

```sql linenums="1"
 INSERT INTO [[STREAM:possible-fraud-stream]] 
  SELECT
    window_start, window_end, card_number, COUNT (*) AS authorization_attempts
  FROM
    TABLE(
      TUMBLE(
        TABLE [[STREAM:card-authorizations-stream]],
        DESCRIPTOR (event_time),
        INTERVAL '5' SECONDS
      )
    )
    GROUP BY
      window_start, window_end, card_number
    HAVING
      COUNT (*) > 5
```
Here we group the incoming authorization attempts by the card numbers ( lines: `12-13`) and look only at those authorizations 
that have the same card number occurring suspiciously often (`14-15`). 
Then we put the suspicious card numbers into a new stream (`1`).

But it would make no sense to count throughout the entire history of the authorization attempts! 
We are only interested in frequent authorization attempts that happen in short intervals of time. 
For this we split the incoming stream into a series of fixed-sized, non-overlapping and contiguous time intervals called `Tumbling Windows` (`6-10`). 
Here we aggregate the stream in intervals of `5 seconds` assuming that `5` authorization attempts in `5` seconds would be hard for a person to do. 
Swiping the card or submitting the form five times within five seconds is a little weird. 
If we see that happening it is flagged as a possible fraud and inserted to the possible-fraud-stream (`1`).

The `possible-fraud-detection` processor emits new `possible-fraud` stream containing the fraudulent transactions.

Next with the help for the `fraud-alert` processor we can register a custom function [UDF](../../architecture/udf/architecture.md), that consumes the `possible-fraud` stream, investigates the suspicious transactions further for example to send alert emails. 

Following diagram illustrates the implementation flow and involved resources:
![Anomaly Detection Flow](anomaly-detection-deployed.svg)

## Quick start

- Follow the [Streaming Runtime Install](../../install.md) instructions to instal the operator.

- Install the anomaly detection streaming application:
```shell
kubectl apply -f 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vmware-tanzu/streaming-runtimes/main/streaming-runtime-samples/anomaly-detection/streaming-pipeline.yaml' -n streaming-runtime
```

- Install the authorization attempts random data stream:
```shell
kubectl apply -f 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vmware-tanzu/streaming-runtimes/main/streaming-runtime-samples/anomaly-detection/data-generator.yaml' -n streaming-runtime
```

- Follow the [explore results](../../instructions/#explore-the-results) instructions to see what data is generated and how it is processed though the pipeline. 

- To delete the data pipeline and the data generator:
```shell
kubectl delete srs,srcs,srp --all -n streaming-runtime 
kubectl delete deployments,svc -l app=authorization-attempts-data-generator -n streaming-runtime
```

## Implementation details

We can implement the anomaly detection scenario with the help of the `Streaming Runtime`. 
We define three `Streams` and two `Processor` custom resources.

_Note: for the purpose of the demo we will skip the explicit CusterStream definitions and instead will enable auth-provisioning for those._

Given that the input authorization attempts stream uses an Avro data format like this:

```json
{
  "name": "AuthorizationAttempts",
  "namespace": "com.tanzu.streaming.runtime.anomaly.detection",
  "type": "record",
  "fields": [
    { "name": "card_number", "type": "string" },
    { "name": "card_type", "type": "string" },
    { "name": "card_expiry", "type": "string" },
    { "name": "name", "type": "string" }
  ]
}
```
We can represent it with the following custom `Stream` resource:
```yaml
apiVersion: streaming.tanzu.vmware.com/v1alpha1
kind: Stream
metadata:
  name: card-authorizations-stream
spec:
  name: card-authorizations
  protocol: "kafka"
  storage:
    clusterStream: "cluster-stream-card-authorizations"
  streamMode: [ "read" ]
  keys: [ "card_number" ]
  dataSchemaContext:
    schema:
      namespace: com.tanzu.streaming.runtime.anomaly.detection
      name: AuthorizationAttempts
      fields:
        - name: card_number
          type: string
        - name: card_type
          type: string
        - name: card_expiry
          type: string
        - name: name
          type: string
        - name: event_time
          type: long_timestamp-millis
          metadata:
            from: timestamp
            readonly: true
          watermark: "`event_time` - INTERVAL '3' SECONDS"
    options:
      ddl.scan.startup.mode: earliest-offset
```

The `event_time` field is auto-provisioned and assigned with Kafka message's timestamp.
In addition, 3 seconds `watermark` is configured for the `event_time` field to tolerate out of order or late coming messages! 

The `possible-fraud-detection` Processor uses streaming SQL to compute the possible frauds: 

```yaml
apiVersion: streaming.tanzu.vmware.com/v1alpha1
kind: Processor
metadata:
  name: possible-fraud-detection
spec:
  type: FSQL
  inlineQuery:
    - "INSERT INTO [[STREAM:possible-fraud-stream]]  
        SELECT window_start, window_end, card_number, COUNT(*) AS authorization_attempts 
        FROM TABLE(TUMBLE(TABLE [[STREAM:card-authorizations-stream]], DESCRIPTOR(event_time), INTERVAL '5' SECONDS)) 
        GROUP BY window_start, window_end, card_number    
        HAVING COUNT(*) > 5"
  attributes:
    debugQuery: "SELECT * FROM PossibleFraud"
    debugExplain: "2"   
```

Processor outputs a new `possible-fraud-stream` Stream: 

```yaml
apiVersion: streaming.tanzu.vmware.com/v1alpha1
kind: Stream
metadata:
  name: possible-fraud-stream
spec:
  name: possible-fraud
  protocol: "kafka"
  storage:
    clusterStream: "cluster-stream-possible-fraud"
  streamMode: [ "read", "write" ]
  keys: [ "card_number" ]
  dataSchemaContext:
    schema:
      namespace: com.tanzu.streaming.runtime.anomaly.detection
      name: PossibleFraud
      fields:
        - name: window_start
          type: long_timestamp-millis
        - name: window_end
          type: long_timestamp-millis
        - name: card_number
          type: string
        - name: authorization_attempts
          type: long
    options:
      ddl.key.fields: card_number
      ddl.value.format: "json"
      ddl.properties.allow.auto.create.topics: "true"
      ddl.scan.startup.mode: earliest-offset
```

The `possible-fraud-stream` is given to `fraud-alert` processor configured with UDF to uppercase the payload content:

```yaml
apiVersion: streaming.tanzu.vmware.com/v1alpha1
kind: Processor
metadata:
  name: fraud-alert
spec:
  type: TWA
  inputs:
    - name: "possible-fraud-stream"
  outputs:
    - name: "fraud-alert-stream"
  template:
    spec:
      containers:
        - name: possible-fraud-analysis-udf
          image: ghcr.io/vmware-tanzu/streaming-runtimes/udf-uppercase-go:0.1
```

Note that the UDF function can be implemented in any programming language.

Finally, the output of the UDF function is send to the `fraud-alert-stream` stream defined like this: 

```yaml
apiVersion: streaming.tanzu.vmware.com/v1alpha1
kind: Stream
metadata:
  name: fraud-alert-stream
spec:
  name: fraud-alert
  keys: [ "card_id" ]
  streamMode: [ "write" ]
  protocol: "rabbitmq"
  storage:
    clusterStream: "cluster-stream-fraud-alert-stream"
```

It uses RabbitMQ message broker and doesn't define an explicit schema assuming the payload data is just a byte-array.

Commit message:

Signed-off-by: Christian Tzolov <christian.tzolov@gmail.com>
Watermarked Time-Window Aggregation

 * New scw-processor
   - time-windowed and pass-through processor with Side-Car (UDF) support over GRPC
   - Watermarks support (reuses the Flink semantics and syntax).
   - EventTime fields can be assigned from Header, from payload field (via JsonPath expression) or defaults to 'proc'.
   - use the SCW prcessor type.
   - remove the old multibinder-grpc (e.g. TWA) in favour of scw-processor (SCW).
 * Partitioning support based on Stream Keys and Processor Replication configurations
   - supports Deployment and StatefulSet pods.
   - Partition keys can be extracted from the payload (json path expressions) or using KeyExpression (SpEL).
 * UDF
   - new Node.js (JavaScript) UDF for the gaming-team UDF.
   - Register helper npm: https://www.npmjs.com/package/streaming-runtime-udf-aggregator
   - new Java UDF for aggregating game user statistics.
 * Add sr-common project contains common Avro and Grpc wrap/unwrap utils used by the scw-processor and aggregation, java UDFs
 * SqlAggregator - bug fixes.
 * Add support to configure remote debugging for all processor types (SCW, FSQL, SCS)
 * Samples
   - update all samples configuration to the latest CDR changes and replacing TWA with SCW.
   - Add new anomaly detection light uscase that compbines SCW/JS window aggregatin with SCS alert.

docs/samples/anomaly-detection/anomaly-detection.md, after:

# ![anomaly detection logo](./anomaly-detection-logo.png){ align=left, width="35"} Credit Card Anomaly Detection 

Imagine a stream of credit card authorization attempts, representing, for example, people swiping their chip cards into a reader or typing their number into a website. Such stream may look something like this:

```json
{"card_number": "1212-1221-1121-1234", "card_type": "discover", "card_expiry": "2013-9-12", "name": "Mr. Chester Stracke" },
{"card_number": "1234-2121-1221-1211", "card_type": "dankort", "card_expiry": "2012-11-12", "name": "Preston Abbott" }
...
```

We would like to identify the suspicious transactions, in real time, and extract them for further investigations. 
For example we can count the incoming authorization attempts per card number and identify those authorizations that occurs suspiciously often.

Lets use the `Streams` and `Processors` streaming-runtime resources to build such abnormal authorization detection application:

![Anomaly Detection SR Pipeline](anomaly-detection-sr-pipeline.svg)

The input stream, `card-authorization` , does not provide a time field for the time when the authorization attempt was performed. 
Such field would have been preferred option for the time widowing grouping.
The next best thing is to use the message timestamp assigned by the message broker to each message.
The implementation details section below explain how this is done to provision an additional `event_time` field to the authorization attempts data schema.

The `possible-fraud-detection` processor leverages streaming SQL to compute the possible fraud attempts:

```sql linenums="1"
 INSERT INTO [[STREAM:possible-fraud-stream]] 
  SELECT
    window_start, window_end, card_number, COUNT (*) AS authorization_attempts
  FROM
    TABLE(
      TUMBLE(
        TABLE [[STREAM:card-authorizations-stream]],
        DESCRIPTOR (event_time),
        INTERVAL '5' SECONDS
      )
    )
    GROUP BY
      window_start, window_end, card_number
    HAVING
      COUNT (*) > 5
```
Here we group the incoming authorization attempts by the card numbers ( lines: `12-13`) and look only at those authorizations 
that have the same card number occurring suspiciously often (`14-15`). 
Then we put the suspicious card numbers into a new stream (`1`).

But it would make no sense to count throughout the entire history of the authorization attempts! 
We are only interested in frequent authorization attempts that happen in short intervals of time. 
For this we split the incoming stream into a series of fixed-sized, non-overlapping and contiguous time intervals called `Tumbling Windows` (`6-10`). 
Here we aggregate the stream in intervals of `5 seconds` assuming that `5` authorization attempts in `5` seconds would be hard for a person to do. 
Swiping the card or submitting the form five times within five seconds is a little weird. 
If we see that happening it is flagged as a possible fraud and inserted to the possible-fraud-stream (`1`).

The `possible-fraud-detection` processor emits new `possible-fraud` stream containing the fraudulent transactions.

Next with the help for the `fraud-alert` processor we can register a custom function [UDF](../../architecture/udf/architecture.md), that consumes the `possible-fraud` stream, investigates the suspicious transactions further for example to send alert emails. 

Following diagram visualizes the [streaming-pipeline.yaml](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vmware-tanzu/streaming-runtimes/main/streaming-runtime-samples/anomaly-detection/streaming-pipeline.yaml), implementing the use case with `Stream` and `Processor` resources:
![Anomaly Detection Flow](anomaly-detection-deployed.svg)

## Quick start

- Follow the [Streaming Runtime Install](../../install.md) instructions to instal the operator.

- Install the anomaly detection streaming application:
```shell
kubectl apply -f 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vmware-tanzu/streaming-runtimes/main/streaming-runtime-samples/anomaly-detection/streaming-pipeline.yaml' -n streaming-runtime
```

- Install the authorization attempts random data stream:
```shell
kubectl apply -f 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vmware-tanzu/streaming-runtimes/main/streaming-runtime-samples/anomaly-detection/data-generator.yaml' -n streaming-runtime
```

- Follow the [explore results](../../instructions/#explore-the-results) instructions to see what data is generated and how it is processed though the pipeline. 

- To delete the data pipeline and the data generator:
```shell
kubectl delete srs,srcs,srp --all -n streaming-runtime 
kubectl delete deployments,svc -l app=authorization-attempts-data-generator -n streaming-runtime
```

## Implementation details

We can implement the anomaly detection scenario with the help of the `Streaming Runtime`. 
We define three `Streams` and two `Processor` custom resources.

_Note: for the purpose of the demo we will skip the explicit CusterStream definitions and instead will enable auth-provisioning for those._

Given that the input authorization attempts stream uses an Avro data format like this:

```json
{
  "name": "AuthorizationAttempts",
  "namespace": "com.tanzu.streaming.runtime.anomaly.detection",
  "type": "record",
  "fields": [
    { "name": "card_number", "type": "string" },
    { "name": "card_type", "type": "string" },
    { "name": "card_expiry", "type": "string" },
    { "name": "name", "type": "string" }
  ]
}
```
We can represent it with the following custom `Stream` resource:
```yaml
apiVersion: streaming.tanzu.vmware.com/v1alpha1
kind: Stream
metadata:
  name: card-authorizations-stream
spec:
  name: card-authorizations
  protocol: "kafka"
  storage:
    clusterStream: "cluster-stream-card-authorizations"
  streamMode: [ "read" ]
  keys: [ "card_number" ]
  dataSchemaContext:
    schema:
      namespace: com.tanzu.streaming.runtime.anomaly.detection
      name: AuthorizationAttempts
      fields:
        - name: card_number
          type: string
        - name: card_type
          type: string
        - name: card_expiry
          type: string
        - name: name
          type: string
        - name: event_time
          type: long_timestamp-millis
          metadata:
            from: timestamp
            readonly: true
          watermark: "`event_time` - INTERVAL '3' SECONDS"
    options:
      ddl.scan.startup.mode: earliest-offset
```

The `event_time` field is auto-provisioned and assigned with Kafka message's timestamp.
In addition, 3 seconds `watermark` is configured for the `event_time` field to tolerate out of order or late coming messages! 

The `possible-fraud-detection` Processor uses streaming SQL to compute the possible frauds: 

```yaml
apiVersion: streaming.tanzu.vmware.com/v1alpha1
kind: Processor
metadata:
  name: possible-fraud-detection
spec:
  type: FSQL
  inlineQuery:
    - "INSERT INTO [[STREAM:possible-fraud-stream]]  
        SELECT window_start, window_end, card_number, COUNT(*) AS authorization_attempts 
        FROM TABLE(TUMBLE(TABLE [[STREAM:card-authorizations-stream]], DESCRIPTOR(event_time), INTERVAL '5' SECONDS)) 
        GROUP BY window_start, window_end, card_number    
        HAVING COUNT(*) > 5"
  attributes:
    debugQuery: "SELECT * FROM PossibleFraud"
    debugExplain: "2"   
```

Processor outputs a new `possible-fraud-stream` Stream: 

```yaml
apiVersion: streaming.tanzu.vmware.com/v1alpha1
kind: Stream
metadata:
  name: possible-fraud-stream
spec:
  name: possible-fraud
  protocol: "kafka"
  storage:
    clusterStream: "cluster-stream-possible-fraud"
  streamMode: [ "read", "write" ]
  keys: [ "card_number" ]
  dataSchemaContext:
    schema:
      namespace: com.tanzu.streaming.runtime.anomaly.detection
      name: PossibleFraud
      fields:
        - name: window_start
          type: long_timestamp-millis
        - name: window_end
          type: long_timestamp-millis
        - name: card_number
          type: string
        - name: authorization_attempts
          type: long
    options:
      ddl.key.fields: card_number
      ddl.value.format: "json"
      ddl.properties.allow.auto.create.topics: "true"
      ddl.scan.startup.mode: earliest-offset
```

The `possible-fraud-stream` is given to `fraud-alert` processor configured with UDF to uppercase the payload content:

```yaml
apiVersion: streaming.tanzu.vmware.com/v1alpha1
kind: Processor
metadata:
  name: fraud-alert
spec:
  type: TWA
  inputs:
    - name: "possible-fraud-stream"
  outputs:
    - name: "fraud-alert-stream"
  template:
    spec:
      containers:
        - name: possible-fraud-analysis-udf
          image: ghcr.io/vmware-tanzu/streaming-runtimes/udf-uppercase-go:0.1
```

Note that the UDF function can be implemented in any programming language.

Finally, the output of the UDF function is send to the `fraud-alert-stream` stream defined like this: 

```yaml
apiVersion: streaming.tanzu.vmware.com/v1alpha1
kind: Stream
metadata:
  name: fraud-alert-stream
spec:
  name: fraud-alert
  keys: [ "card_id" ]
  streamMode: [ "write" ]
  protocol: "rabbitmq"
  storage:
    clusterStream: "cluster-stream-fraud-alert-stream"
```

It uses RabbitMQ message broker and doesn't define an explicit schema assuming the payload data is just a byte-array.
