docs/samples/clickstream/clickstream.md, before:

# ![clickstream logo](./clickstream-logo.png){ align=left, width="40"} Clickstream Analysis

The Streaming ETL is a common place for many people to begin first when they start exploring the streaming data processing. 
With the streaming ETL we get some kind of data events coming into the streaming pipeline, and we want intelligent analysis to go out the other end.

Let's just say `clickstream` data is coming in, and we want to know who are our high status customers who are currently using the website
so that we can engage with them or to find how much they buy or how long they stay on the site that day.

> `Clickstream` data is the pathway that a user takes through their online journey. 
> For a single website it generally shows how the user progressed from search to purchase. 
> The clickstream links together the actions a single user has taken within a single session. 
> This means identifying where a search, click or purchase was performed within a single session.

Let say that our streaming ETL, receives two input streams of data:

the `Users` stream - containing detailed information about the registered users:

```json
{"user_id":"407-41-3862","name":"Olympia Koss","level":"SILVER"}
{"user_id":"066-68-4140","name":"Dr. Leah Daniel","level":"GOLD"}
{"user_id":"722-61-1415","name":"Steven Moore","level":"GOLD"}
{"user_id":"053-26-9971","name":"Karine Boyle","level":"SILVER"}
{"user_id":"795-35-5070","name":"Dr. Akiko Hoppe","level":"PLATINUM"}
{"user_id":"164-85-7495","name":"Kassie Homenick","level":"SILVER"}
...
```

and the `Clicks` - the stream of click events: 

```json
{"user_id":"170-65-1094","page":5535,"action":"selection","device":"computer","agent":"Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; WOW64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/56.0.2924.87 Safari/537.36 OPR/43.0.2442.991"}
{"user_id":"804-31-3496","page":30883,"action":"checkout","device":"tablet","agent":"Mozilla/4.0 (compatible; MSIE 7.0; Windows NT 6.0)"}
{"user_id":"011-54-8948","page":18877,"action":"products","device":"mobile","agent":"Mozilla/5.0 (iPhone; CPU iPhone OS 11_4_1 like Mac OS X) AppleWebKit/605.1.15 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/11.0 Mobile/15E148 Safari/604.1"}
{"user_id":"854-27-6546","page":64282,"action":"selection","device":"mobile","agent":"Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; WOW64; rv:50.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/50.0"}
{"user_id":"719-81-5311","page":54344,"action":"product_detail","device":"mobile","agent":"Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 5.1; rv:7.0.1) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/7.0.1"}
{"user_id":"263-22-2309","page":28687,"action":"products","device":"mobile","agent":"Mozilla/5.0 (iPhone; CPU iPhone OS 12_0_1 like Mac OS X) AppleWebKit/605.1.15 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/12.0 Mobile/15E148 Safari/604.1"}
```
> Note the JSON format is optional. For real scenarios Apache Avro is most likely to be used

Then we can define a streaming query that continuously analyses the two input streams and produces a new stream containing only enriched information for the Platinum level users.

```sql
1. INSERT INTO VipActions
2.      SELECT 
3.         Users.user_id, Users.name, Clicks.page, Clicks.action, Clicks.event_time 
4.      FROM 
5.         Clicks
6.      INNER JOIN 
7.         Users ON Clicks.user_id = Users.user_id  
8.      WHERE 
9.         Users.level = 'PLATINUM'
```

The first line (`1`) creates a new VIP Actions stream and a new Kafka topic. 
The query is going to run and never stop until we kill it.
The new stream is created as an ordinary SQL select (`2`) from a stream called `Clicks` (`5`) joined to a stream called `Users` (`6-7`).
Since the `Clicks` and `Users` streams have both a `user_id` we can join them to get a new stream that's the clickstream data enriched with the user data.

We are only interested in platinum-level users. This the user-level information is not available in the Clicks stream, but as we were able to join to the Users stream now we can filter based on the Users data (`8-9`).

Following diagram illustrates the implementation flow and involved resources:
![Click Streams Flow](clickstream.svg)



## Quick start

- Follow the [Streaming Runtime Install](../../install.md) instructions to instal the operator.

- Install the Clickstream pipeline:
```shell
kubectl apply -f 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vmware-tanzu/streaming-runtimes/main/streaming-runtime-samples/clickstream/streaming-pipeline.yaml' -n streaming-runtime
```

- Install the click-stream random data stream:

```shell
kubectl apply -f 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vmware-tanzu/streaming-runtimes/main/streaming-runtime-samples/clickstream/data-generator.yaml' -n streaming-runtime
```

- Follow the [explore Kafka](../../instructions/#kafka-topics) and [explore Rabbit](../../instructions/#rabbit-queues) to see what data is generated and how it is processed though the pipeline. 

- Delete the Top-k songs pipeline and the demo song generator:
```shell
kubectl delete srs,srcs,srp --all -n streaming-runtime 
kubectl delete deployments -l app=clickstream-data-generator -n streaming-runtime 
```

Commit message:

Factor out the streaming SQL transformations into a dedicated Processor
 Split the Processor semantics into 3 general purpose processor types
  - Time Window Aggregation type - existing multi-binder + sidecar UDF (no SQL anymore)
  - FSQL type - factor out the existing streaming SQL into dedicated processor type which is deployed in a separate POD.
  - SCS type - Spring Cloud Stream support including all OOTB SCDF apps.
 Update the Processor CRD to reflect the new Processor semantics.
 Refactor the Processor K8s Controller the allow configuring and deploying the above 3 processor types.
 Samples
  - refactor all samples to reflect the new Processor(s) semantics.
  - added SCS sample
 Docs
  - update samples docs
  - new SCS sample doc
  - add Stream Schema page
  - add architecture sub-section
  - basic SR concepts info added to the Usage section

 Add StatefulSet processor support
  - add processor.spec.replicas:int property to the Processor CRD - used to configure the Deployment or StatefulSet's  replica count.
  - in addition to the Deployment now processor can be deployed as StatefulSet as well.
   - use the processor.spec.attributes.partitionedInput=true to enable StatefulSet.
   - Refactor the ProcessorReconciler to support both deployment types.
  - add streaming-pipeline-ticktock-partitioned.yaml to show how to use manually partitioning (SCS only).
  - minor doc improvements.

 Upgrade multibinder Boot to 2.7.0.
 Add multibinder cloudevents dependencies.
 Regenerate CDRs java code.

 Resolves #20

docs/samples/clickstream/clickstream.md, after:

# ![clickstream logo](./clickstream-logo.png){ align=left, width="40"} Clickstream Analysis

The Streaming ETL is a common place for many people to begin first when they start exploring the streaming data processing. 
With the streaming ETL we get some kind of data events coming into the streaming pipeline, and we want intelligent analysis to go out the other end.

The clickstream analysis is common ETL data processing technique for helping understand the customer browsing behavior.

> `Clickstream` data is the pathway that a user takes through their online journey. 
> For a single website it generally shows how the user progressed from search to purchase. 
> The clickstream links together the actions a single user has taken within a single session. 
> This means identifying where a search, click or purchase was performed within a single session.

For example with clickstream analysis we can understand who are the high status customers currently using our websites,
so that we can engage with them or find how much they buy or how long they stay on the site per day.

Here is how the `Stream` and `Processor` resources can help us build a clickstream, data processing pipeline:

![clickstream logo](./clickstream-sr-pipeline.svg)

The first input, `user-stream`, provides detailed information about the website registered users and looks like this:

```json
{"user_id":"407-41-3862","name":"Olympia Koss","level":"SILVER"}
{"user_id":"066-68-4140","name":"Dr. Leah Daniel","level":"GOLD"}
{"user_id":"722-61-1415","name":"Steven Moore","level":"GOLD"}
...
```

The second input, `click-stream`, streams the actions and paths the users take throughout their website browsing journey: 

```json
{"user_id":"170-65-1094","page":5535,"action":"selection","device":"computer","agent":"Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; WOW64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/56.0.2924.87 Safari/537.36 OPR/43.0.2442.991"}
{"user_id":"804-31-3496","page":30883,"action":"checkout","device":"tablet","agent":"Mozilla/4.0 (compatible; MSIE 7.0; Windows NT 6.0)"}
{"user_id":"011-54-8948","page":18877,"action":"products","device":"mobile","agent":"Mozilla/5.0 (iPhone; CPU iPhone OS 11_4_1 like Mac OS X) AppleWebKit/605.1.15 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/11.0 Mobile/15E148 Safari/604.1"}
...
```

The `vip-join-and-filter` Processor joins the input streams to enrich the click behavior with user details and filter in only the high status customer. 
Processor uses streaming SQL to continuously analyze the input streams and produces a new stream containing only enriched information for the Platinum level users:

```sql
1. INSERT INTO VipActions
2.      SELECT 
3.         Users.user_id, Users.name, Clicks.page, Clicks.action, Clicks.event_time 
4.      FROM 
5.         Clicks
6.      INNER JOIN 
7.         Users ON Clicks.user_id = Users.user_id  
8.      WHERE 
9.         Users.level = 'PLATINUM'
```

Computed VIP Actions are contentiously written the the output `vip-action-stream`.

The second, `vip-act-upon`, Processor consumes the VIP-Actions events and allows us to implement a domain specific, [User Defined Function](../../architecture/udf/architecture.md) that act and apply some business logic upon the VIP events. 
The UDF can be written in language of our choice!

Following diagram illustrates the implementation flow and involved resources:
![Click Streams Flow](clickstream-arch.svg)

## Quick start

- Follow the [Streaming Runtime Install](../../install.md) instructions to instal the operator.

- Install the Clickstream pipeline:
```shell
kubectl apply -f 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vmware-tanzu/streaming-runtimes/main/streaming-runtime-samples/clickstream/streaming-pipeline.yaml' -n streaming-runtime
```

- Install the click-stream random data stream:
```shell
kubectl apply -f 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vmware-tanzu/streaming-runtimes/main/streaming-runtime-samples/clickstream/data-generator.yaml' -n streaming-runtime
```

- Follow the [explore results](../../instructions/#explore-the-results) instructions to see what data is generated and how it is processed though the pipeline. 

- Delete all pipelines:
```shell
kubectl delete srs,srcs,srp --all -n streaming-runtime 
kubectl delete deployments -l app=clickstream-data-generator -n streaming-runtime 
```
