docs/architecture/cluster-streams/overview.md, before:

# Cluster Streams

The Streaming Runtime Operator provides `ClusterStreams` allowing operators install dynamic Cluster Stream provisioners for developers to consume and create streams e.g. Kafka topics, or they may choose to limit creation of topics to administrators.

![Cluster Streams](./clusterstream-stream-relationship.svg)

`ClusterStreams` contains the information where the stream cluster is and its bindings.

```yaml
apiVersion: streaming.tanzu.vmware.com/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterStream
metadata: {}
spec:
  # Topic name
  name: "topicNme"
  # Key attributes for the topic
  keys: [<string>]
  # Streaming modes that will be allowed at the creation of Streams e.g. read, write
  streamModes: [<string>]
  storage:
    # Information about the Cluster
    server:
      # Reference to an existing Service Binding Service (e.g. secrets).
      binding: <string>
      # Message Broker connection URL
      url: <string>
      # Message Broker type
      protocol: <string>
    reclaimPolicy: <string>
```

For a detailed description of attributes of the resource please read [cluster-stream-crd.yaml](https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/streaming-runtimes/blob/main/streaming-runtime-operator/crds/cluster-stream-crd.yaml){:target="_blank"}

## Stream relation

The `ClusterStreams` and the `Streams` follow the [PersistentVolume](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/) model: namespaced `Stream` declared by a developer (ala `PVC`) is backed by a `ClusterStream` resource (ala `PV`) which is controlled and provisioned by the administrator.
For convenience during the development stage, the SR operator auto-provisions the `ClusterStreams` for all `Streams` that don't have explicitly declared them.

## Service Binding

The [Service Binding Specification](../service-binding/service-binding.md) provides a Kubernetes-wide specification for communicating service secrets to workloads in an automated way.
The Stream `spec.binding` allow to refer existing service binding service (aka secrets).

## Key Capabilities

- Ability to reference an already-existing stream to support interoperability with other systems
- Knowledge and documentation of the partitioning and schema of the stream data
- Ability to provision new streams and set the partition key
- Stream status should provide a Duck-type contract which provides all the necessary information to consume the stream once provisioned.

Commit message:

ClusterStream auo-provisioning docs
Signed-off-by: Christian Tzolov <christian.tzolov@gmail.com>

docs/architecture/cluster-streams/overview.md, after:

# Cluster Streams

The Streaming Runtime Operator provides `ClusterStreams` allowing operators install dynamic Cluster Stream provisioners for developers to consume and create streams e.g. Kafka topics, or they may choose to limit creation of topics to administrators.

![Cluster Streams](./clusterstream-stream-relationship.svg)

`ClusterStreams` contains the information where the stream cluster is and its bindings.

```yaml
apiVersion: streaming.tanzu.vmware.com/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterStream
metadata: {}
spec:
  # Topic/Exchange name
  name: "topicOrExchangeNme"
  # Key attributes for the topic
  keys: [<string>]
  # Streaming modes that will be allowed at the creation of Streams e.g. read, write
  streamModes: [<string>]
  storage:
    # Information about the Message Broker to assess and manage.
    server:
      # Reference to an existing Service Binding Service (e.g. secrets).
      binding: <string>
      # Message Broker connection URL
      url: <string>
      # Message Broker type
      protocol: <string>
    reclaimPolicy: <string>
  attributes:
    # (optional) message-broker auto-provisioning adapter name
    protocolAdapterName: <auto-provisioning adapter name>
```

For a detailed description of attributes of the resource please read [cluster-stream-crd.yaml](https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/streaming-runtimes/blob/main/streaming-runtime-operator/crds/cluster-stream-crd.yaml){:target="_blank"}

## Stream relationship

The `ClusterStreams` and the [Streams](../streams/overview.md) follow the [PersistentVolume](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/) model: namespaced `Stream` declared by a developer (ala `PVC`) is backed by a `ClusterStream` resource (ala `PV`) which is controlled and provisioned by the administrator.
For convenience during the development stage, the SR operator auto-provisions the `ClusterStreams` for all `Streams` that don't have explicitly declared them.

## Service Binding

The [Service Binding Specification](../service-binding/service-binding.md) provides a Kubernetes-wide specification for communicating service secrets to workloads in an automated way.
The Stream `spec.binding` allow to refer existing service binding service (aka secrets).

## Message Brokers Auto-provisioning

The ClusterStream's controller uses the `spec.storage.server` information to connect to the target messaging broker (aka Apache Kafka, RabbitMQ and so.) and apply the configured policies.
If the target messaging broker is missing, by default the ClusterStream controller will try to auto-provision one.
This behavior is handy in the development stage where the developer is not bothered to provision the messaging infrastructure 
and instead lets the SR auto-provision and tear down the messaging infrastructure on demand.
In production environments this behavior is likely to be disabled. 

Currently The ClusterStream Controllers can auto-provision:

- Apache Kafka with Schema Registry and Kafka UI console.
- RabbitMQ. You can use the simple rabbitmq deployment (default) or leverage the RabbitMQ Operator by setting `protocolAdapterName` attribute to `rabbitmq-operator`. [RabbitMQ OperatorSample](https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/streaming-runtimes/blob/main/streaming-runtime-samples/tutorials/2-multibiner-bridge.yaml).

## Key Capabilities

- Ability to reference an already-existing stream to support interoperability with other systems
- Knowledge and documentation of the partitioning and schema of the stream data
- Ability to provision new streams and set the partition key
- Stream status should provide a Duck-type contract which provides all the necessary information to consume the stream once provisioned.
